---
title: Building and Installing Asterisk
pageid: 4817525
---

Build and Install Instructions
==============================

Now we can compile and install Asterisk. To compile Asterisk, simply type make at the Linux command line.

[root@server asterisk-14.X.Y]# make
The compiling step will take several minutes, and you'll see the various file names scroll by as they are being compiled. Once Asterisk has finished compiling, you'll see a message that looks like:

+--------- Asterisk Build Complete ---------+
+ Asterisk has successfully been built, and +
+ can be installed by running: +
+ +
+ make install +
+-------------------------------------------+
+--------- Asterisk Build Complete ---------+
On this PageAs the message above suggests, our next step is to install the compiled Asterisk program and modules. To do this, use the **make** **install** command.

[root@server asterisk-14.X.Y]# make install
When finished, Asterisk will display the following warning:

+---- Asterisk Installation Complete -------+
+ +
+ YOU MUST READ THE SECURITY DOCUMENT +
+ +
+ Asterisk has successfully been installed. +
+ If you would like to install the sample +
+ configuration files (overwriting any +
+ existing config files), run: +
+ +
+ make samples +
+ +
+-------------------------------------------+
+---- Asterisk Installation Complete -------+
Security PrecautionsAs the message above suggests, we very strongly recommend that you read the security documentation before continuing with your Asterisk installation. Failure to read and follow the security documentation can leave your system vulnerable to a number of security issues, including toll fraud.

Advanced Build and Install Options
==================================

Customizing the Build/Installation
----------------------------------

In some environments, it may be necessary or useful to modify parts of the build or installation process. Some common scenarios are listed here

### Passing compilation and linkage flags to gcc

Specific flags can be passed to `gcc` when Asterisk is configured, using the `CFLAGS` and `LDFLAGS` environment variables:

[root@server asterisk-14.X.Y]# ./configure CFLAGS=-pg LDFLAGS=-pg### Debugging compilation

To see all of the flags passed to gcc, build using the `NOISY_BUILD` setting set to `YES`:

[root@server asterisk-14.X.Y]# make NOISY\_BUILD=yes### Building for non-native architectures

Generally, Asterisk attempts to optimize itself for the machine on which it is built on. On some virtual machines with virtual CPU architectures, the defaults chosen by Asterisk's compilation options will cause Asterisk to build but fail to run. To disable native architecture support, disable the `BUILD_NATIVE` option in menuselect:

[root@server asterisk-14.X.Y]# menuselect/menuselect --disable BUILD\_NATIVE menuselect.makeopts

[root@server asterisk-14.X.Y]# make### Installing to a custom directory

While there are multiple ways to sandbox an instance of Asterisk, the preferred mechanism is to use the `--prefix` option with the `configure` script:

[root@server asterisk-14.X.Y]# ./configure --prefix=/usr/local/my\_special\_folderNote that the default value for `prefix` is `/usr/local`.

Other Make Targets
------------------



| Target | Description |
| --- | --- |
|  | Executing `make` with no target is equivalent to the `all` target. |
| **all** | Compiles everything everything selected through the `configure` and `menuselect` scripts. |
| **full** | This is equivalent to `make` or `make all`, save that it will perform a more thorough investigation of the source code for documentation. This is needed to generate AMI event documentation. Note that your system must have Python in order for this make target to succeed.Version NoticeThis build target is only available in Asterisk 11 and later versions. |
| **install** | Installs Asterisk, building Asterisk if it has not already been built. In general, this should be executed after Asterisk has successfully compiled. |
| **uninstall** | Removes Asterisk binaries, sounds, man pages, headers, modules and firmware builds from the system. |
| **uninstall-all** | Same as the `uninstall` target, but additionally removes configuration, spool directories and logs. All traces of Asterisk.As just noted, this will remove all Asterisk configuration from your system. Do not execute `uninstall-all` unless you are sure that is what you want to do. |
| **clean** | Remove all files generated by make. |
| **dist-clean** | Remove pretty much all files generated by make and configure. |
| **samples** | Install all sample configuration files (.conf files) to `/etc/asterisk/`. Overwrites existing config files. |
| **config** | Install init scripts (startup scripts) on your system. |
| **progdocs** | Uses doxygen to locally generate HTML development documentation from the source code.  Generated in the `doc/` subdirectory of the source; see `doc/index.html`. |

 

 

 

