# Pull Request Checklist

To help provide more accurate and up-to-date information converning pull request and commit message formatting and requirements, all new pull requests will be scanned for common issues and if any are found, a checklist will be added to the PR explaining the issue and recommending action.  As updates are made to the PR, the checklist will be updated and when all items have been resolved, the checklist will be deleted.

/// note
Having open checklist items won't necessarily prevent your PR from being merged.  It isn't perfect and false positives are possible.  If you have suggestions for additional checklist items or you believe the criteria or display text for an existing check is faulty, let us know.
///

## PR Checklist as of March 2, 2025

**Attention!** This pull request may contain issues that could prevent it from being accepted.  Please review the checklist below and take the recommended action.  If you believe any of these are not applicable, just add a comment and let us know.

- [ ] There is more than 1 commit in this PR and no PR comment with a `multiple-commits:` special header. Please squash the commits down into 1 or see the [Code Contribution](https://docs.asterisk.org/Development/Policies-and-Procedures/Code-Contribution/) documentation for how to add the `multiple-commits:` header.
- [ ] The PR title does not match the commit title.
- [ ] The PR description does not match the commit message body.
- [ ] The commit message doesn't contain a blank line after the title.
- [ ] The <mmsg_body> has a malformed `Fixes` or `Resolves` trailer. The `Fixes` or `Resolves` keywords MUST be preceeded by a blank line and followed immediately by a colon, a space, a hash sign, and the issue number. A malformed trailer will prevent the issue from being automatically closed when the PR merges and from being listed in the release change logs.<br> Regular expression: `^(Fixes|Resolves): #[0-9]+`.<br> Example: `Fixes: #9999`. 
- [ ] The `<keyword>` trailer in the <msg_body> must be predeeded by a blank line and the `<keyword>` keyword itself must be followed by a colon and a space before the actual note text.  This is to ensure that the note is properly formatted and displayed in the release change logs.
- [ ] The <first_body> has a `Fixes` or `Resolves` special trailer but the <second_body> has neither.  A properly formatted `Fixes` or `Resolves` trailer is required in the PR description to allow the issue and the PR to be cross-linked and for the issue to be automatically closed when the PR merges. It's also required in the commit message to allow the issue to be listed in the release change logs.
- [ ] The are no `cherry-pick-to` headers in any comment in this PR. If the PR applies to more than just the branch it was submitted against, please add a comment with one or more `cherry-pick-to: <branch>` headers or a comment with `cherry-pick-to: none` to indicate that this PR shouldn'tbe cherry-picked to any other branch. See the [Code Contribution](https://docs.asterisk.org/Development/Policies-and-Procedures/Code-Contribution/) documentation for more information.
- [ ] An Alembic change was detected but a commit message UpgradeNote with at least one of the 'alembic', 'database' or 'schema' keywords wasn't found. Please add an UpgradeNote to the commit message that mentions one of those keywords notifying users that there's a database schema change.
- [ ] An Alembic change was detected but no changes were detected to any sample config file. If this PR changes the database schema, it probably should also include changes to the matching sample config files in configs/samples.
- [ ] There appear to be changes to Autoconf source files (configure.ac, bootstrap.sh, *.m4) but the ./configure file itself hasn't changed. If you change any Autoconf source file, you must run `./bootstrap.sh` to regenerate the configure file.
- [ ] The ./configure file appears to have been changed manually. This file is auto-generated by running `./bootstrap.sh` and must not be modified directly. Please revert the changes to the ./configure file and run `./bootstrap.sh` to regenerate it.
- [ ] There appear to be changes to res/res_ari_*.c and/or res/ari/*.h files but no corresponding changes to the the json files in rest-api/api-docs. The *.c and *.h files are auto-generated from the json files by `make ari-stubs` and must not be modified directly.
- [ ] There appear to be changes to the json files in rest-api/api-docs but no corresponding changes to the res/res_ari_*.c and/or res/ari/*.h files that are generated from them. You must run `make ari-stubs` after modifying any file in rest-api/api-docs and include the changes in your commit.
- [ ] An ARI change was detected but a commit message UpgradeNote mentioning ARI wasn't found. Please add an UpgradeNote to the commit message that mentions ARI notifying users that there's been a change to the REST resources.
- [ ] A change was detected to the sample configuration files in ./config/samples but no UserNote or UpgradeNote was found in the commit message. If this PR includes changes that contain new configuration parameters or a change to existing parameters, please include a UserNote in the commit message.  If the changes require some action from the user to preserve existing behavior, please include an UpgradeNote.
- [ ] A change was detected to the pjsip sample configuration files in ./config/samples but no Alembic change was detected. If this PR includes changes that contain new configuration parameters or a change to existing configuration parameters for pjsip, chances are that a change to the realtime database schema is also required.

Documentation:<br>
* [Asterisk Developer Documentation](https://docs.asterisk.org/Development/)<br>
* [Code Contribution](https://docs.asterisk.org/Development/Policies-and-Procedures/Code-Contribution/)<br>
* [Commit Messages](https://docs.asterisk.org/Development/Policies-and-Procedures/Commit-Messages)<br>
* [Alembic Scripts](https://docs.asterisk.org/Development/Reference-Information/Other-Reference-Information/Alembic-Scripts/)<br>
